I always remembered one day I
must have been 15 years old I accompanied
my father to the bank
I didn't really listen to what was going on
but what I saw in the banker's office
was this poster there which
said the savings fund / second
life between angels with an idea being tested
and heating up the livebox to
visit the island of the accused by it's true
that it's not great in short
but hey it intrigued me  I downloaded
second life
I didn't understand anything I never found the
savings bank I uninstalled it and
since then it has always intrigued me
how the savings bank could
be so far ahead of us in its
time  to create a virtual entity
on a game like that in 2007
today we are going to talk about the madness of this
second life how this open world has
settled into the heart of the lives of millions
of people how many brands
have tried it on  this game that becomes
this empire which so quickly rises in
the minds of the people that it has been forgotten
that they are the ones who obviously managed
to benefit from it or even become a millionaire
thanks to that and incidentally who are
the people who are still on it  and which
bring the game to life it's a
slightly different form that we're offering you
today we hope you like it it
brings everything back you
often ask me why I haven't released
videos for six months
c  it's very simple I was playing stop
shadow legend if you have ever lived
in a bunker these last two years
know that rennes chador legends is a
deglingo rpg available on mobile and on
pc you can collect more than 400
champions who will fight for you in
no  not eleven not 12 but thirteen
spectacular places
ap personally this game radically
changed my life before I was sad and
bland
today I'm sad and bland but
I fight against monsters with
incredible graphics candy they give
me  love it because the game is free and I
decided to call my first child john
thune the name of the hero that I offer you
thanks to the links in descriptions john
thune if you watch this video
know that Pope has a very strong theme the
update  of May will allow you to do
maboule tournaments you will be able to
[ __ ] yourself in the face in
arenas and fight the leaf night
lights go the man with the same this dragon
to win reward mold
if you are a new player you
will receive 100,000 money because  I delight you
and I even add only turns to
champions and pricks my spiritual son
you have 30 days to recover them and
but wait what did I do with
my download links yes they
are in my description
what am I stupid then I'm
head in the air
[Music]
in 1999 an entrepreneur named Philip
Rosedale created Linden Lab a company ahead
of its time its goal to deepen
the technology already addressed for example
by Nintendo  with its virtual boy and
thus offer virtual reality to the
general public but all 13 years before
the very announcement of the oculus rift
unfortunately the first prototypes
will not be convincing and the company
will change course they will thus create
linden world in 2001 the  alpha version of
second life which will be released two years
later in 2003 on PC it annoys toffin
this niche why then second life is in
open world virtual and free where you
can create your avatar with the look that
you like wherever you meet there
elsewhere any game
still recognizes that you and discussed
with it we can see it as a sort
of big social network in 3d
the map is made up of purchasable islands
praiseworthy thanks to the monetary system setting
up the linden dollars a real
virtual currency exchangeable in
dollars or euros depending on the
stock price in place and yet this is not
the first time that an open social network
in the attempt to break through already in
1997 an unexpected French actor had
created the beginnings of second life
second world or the second world in
French since it is a creation
of a channel plus a sort of second life
in the streets of Paris closed in 2001
of which there are no longer many traces
on the internet
young second life therefore arrives in  2003
at the time when the ps2 the gamecube is
just arriving in our homes where the snack
is punctuated by the code
lyoko credits and where the united states decide
to invade iraq
yeah nah that breaks the whole second life a little bit
is therefore the sims more
realistic and online but this does not mean
that we must see second rise
as a simple classic game but the
strength of second life lies in
the imagination of its residents that they
have all the tools  necessary to
create the island of their dreams
the customization which is infinite images
are 3d elements as long as you are
a little resourceful you can
achieve almost everything you
want on second life
second life is an infinite sandbox
for  create the place of your dreams
and it is this freedom so unusual
especially at the time which will create the
success of the game it is impossible to go
through everything that can be found
on second life
everything has been done  weddings seminars
exhibitions concerts some
universities like standford even
give virtual courses to
virtual students that's to say it's incredible and
obviously why second life is
banned from twitch there's ass everywhere
virtual couple escort orgy in short we're going to
keep the  sand monetization is suitable and
will let you all imagine
many games and will thus spend
hours whether to
meet people
or to create others will
literally have a second life as
explained in certain reports it is
the opportunity for  people who are not
socially comfortable or wish to change their
horizons to discover things other
than their daily life is obviously second
life can play an important role for
people with disabilities
google and human relations are
therefore at the heart of  second life but it
can lead to very very
curious situations sometimes a mother of four
children leaves her husband for a pole
dancer met on second life with
whom she had a virtual marriage a baby
and then a real marriage is not
funny you  you doubt that
I had to go and take a look there
so first disappointment the island of the
savings bank no longer exists that
made me really sad at the time the
beginning of second life is very
difficult we don't understand we are
dropped on a host island without really
knowing where to go next
and when we go somewhere we do
n't understand either the interest or why
these empty spaces
luckily I had the help of a guide
patrick moya an artist from Nice who
for 13 years has been building four islands on
second life and it's incredible that he
is a classic artist at the
start he is a painter
sculptor called patrick moya who
is recognized by his  peer who exhibits
all over the world and who at
the same time works during the day he
paints and at night he is on second life
I visited a little of what he created and
then we talked together
well before that I tried to  visit and it
went badly I'm sorry about
the plane Patrick I did what I could
as soon as I discovered this world that
I understood that this was what I
wanted to do
gep  has never had any doubt about the fact that
I am doing work which is I feel that
I feel that it is them that I am right
but I do not know why it is the
reproduction of my workshop in Monaco and
I work in  direct in this world
effect every time I am there if I am at the
same time in second life and at the same
time real there it is the carnival the
virtual when I live the people to come and
participate in the super carnival yen they
are  teleport directly to the
ship and rossi real
fashion show by two designers from seconds
light
me I danced a lot at those times
in the 80s nightclubs
now I dance on second life more
practical than going out in the evening so sometimes
I  'invite avatars to come dance
and then we enter the east in the
secret services bees watch the
bald people and avatars who come here
for example I have a map where I can
see the nationalities that I have always
dreamed of  having a double that can
survive me can continue to work
and moreover it is the future since
google thinks in 2045 to succeed in keeping
the brain inside the computer
therefore which would eventually allow me
to have  my
double who continues to work in
the virtual world and one day moreover
I have the Americans who came who
spent the whole day and who
told me that they were on acid
Patrick Moya offers us a very
personal vision  of second life
but above all he represents the
typical inhabitant who brings this game to life through his
creations through his presence with
others as he did with me so once again
patrick thank you very much
once I have a collector from
Detroit and she wanted  buy
sums surely said so I put
prices on it we traveled to the island said it's
poorer laugh because I'm
not looking to do a business
that's something completely different it
there are people who make objects
really to sell them but they live
there and make a living from their work but second
life has also allowed entrepreneurs
to flourish on the servers because
yes as soon as a monetary system is in place
there is a way  to make money
as we told you we can sell
animations skins clothes
houses land obviously this has
made it possible to create very beautiful success
stories and we are going to talk straight away
about a young German who succeeded  to
do very very well with second
life in the game arrived in 2004 on
second life
she began to generate money with
two types of activities according to her the
sale of clothes which is quite classic
and personal amusement where she  will
not hide having offered
sex education courses on second life
that is to say if you want to learn how to
[ __ ] well and well someone could
explain to you she will also do some
escort services which will bring her an
interesting little nest egg with this  money
she will start to be interested in
real estate she will buy
land where she will build
houses villas sometimes even
shopping centers which she will rent or
resell to other players the business
will very quickly become juicy and she
will create one  real real estate agency
the success is such that it would
even buy 30% of a company a bit like e-bay
called virtua trade and which allows you
to really exchange on this platform to
exchange objects in second life
in the end virtua  trade on a resold to
second life
officially to become the second of
live marketplace two and a half years of
work and 9 $ 95 of investment
will allow rancho to become the
first virtual millionaire of an
open world
and be careful when we talk about
millionaires we  don't talk online about
dollars we talk in American dollars
yes
[Music]
the socialists are avatar will even be on the
front page of the very renowned Businessweek magazine
and which will once again help
to popularize the game and make it
serious and credible among people
our  friend philip rosedale boss of
linden lab will even go so far as to say that in
chongqing has so much power that if
it beats nice is someone from its
lands then it would almost amount to
banishing it from second life at its peak in
shopping will be at the head  of a network of
80 employees and its empire will extend over
5,150 different servers
and like any source of power in
Chechnya has known its share in [ __ ]
obviously in addition to being a woman
on the internet already at the time that's
how  example the day when she was quite
simply attacked by
flying penises in the middle of a conference but
above all she will be the source of inspiration we
think in any case you attack
Garry Kasparov
the famous chess player who during
a political conference  was
attacked by a drone carrying a
penis two years later
and frankly we had much much
more fun in real
life living in someone else's skin having a
second life a little more beautiful is
that we are there  and the second of vichy in
French zack wrifht in sochaux
express myself profane
business & johnson who landed there
it was armored world of bubbles in
all the senses of this post by my friendships
fortune you can find everything on
second life in the world  its hypocrisy
yes when we reached the million
dollars in 2006 second life
also had its hour of glory
as a reminder at the time we communicate
mainly by msn the iphone
certainly did not exist and facebook
were just opening the general public to the
Internet users from all over the world are rushing
to create an account on this
virtual universe which is really presented as
the successor to the Internet literally
in Baghdad
and it is the buzz as young people would say
with more than 40,000 people
connected simultaneously to any
what time of day
ok said like that it doesn't sell the dream but
at the time counter strike with 80
miles as a point of comparison so
really it was good the
communication agencies sensed the vein it
began to create islands of  products
everything you want so that
brands can settle on second
life
the toyota sion today we are going to
extract it from the real world and put it
in the virtual world of second life
for what to do and well already to
obviously ensuring a presence in the
game to be able to claim it
publicly but also presented its
services selling replicas of objects
or like the Dell brand which will go even
further you could order for
example a computer on second life
it would receive in real life the  samo
it's still at the time it wasn't
gross 1 we're talking about hundreds and
hundreds of brands that have
settled on second life but
brands that you know a agricultural credit
aol google microsoft renault american
apparel bmw  sony ericsson my
savings fund coca cola adidas l'oral
and even nesquik nesquik was on second
life guys so that's for the
brand part obviously there were
also events which is very
interesting and which I really find
its crazy even still at the present time
for example the day when george rr martin
exclusively read the first chapter
of his new book on second life
but press conference for
transformers for example also where the
actors were really present in
second life for  answer the questions
a real urban legend
still circulates today since
sometimes there were concerts which
were organized on second life and we
would have offered this to Lily Allen at
the time for a good sum of
bitcoin except that really  bitcoin
at the time had no value
so we don't really know if it's true
but history says that lily allen
takes a huge bite out of it
lily allen if you watch this video
don't hesitate to unlock  all that and
especially in 2007 it is time for the
French to go to the polls in the
real world
and once again it is proof of
the strike force of second life
many presidential candidates will elect
their headquarters on second life  so you
could go for example for pure self-confident
pleasure
it's a complete hit no
yeah we're always the first to go
on second life or lille sgolne
royal on second ball
so I'm inaugurating this magnificent building
which has just been built  sending the
countless ones and you will find me you
could even listen to jos bov being
interviewed by the singer of zebda
yeah I know that's a lot at
once but above all there was even this
good old jean lassalle and so we are
still telling us that
jean lassalle was ahead of us
on the internet
is that good for you jean
marie le pen was also represented
he had an FN HQ but he wasn't
really welcome
some  loudly demonstrate their
disagreement at the entrance to the headquarters
they even posted a huge sign
inviting them to move the presence of
the extreme right quits we are devaluing the
property in this virtual neighborhood I
saw it just funny enough I think the
internet  is one of the new means
of political expression and
political freedoms and second life am you are
so powerful at that time that
even reuters the equivalent of the
world fp opened a real
virtual office there were
full-time journalists on second  life
he covers the news of second life and
residents interviewing people real
people you are not making statements on
elders virtual podium and he
really was not holding back when she
had to announce he believed in it firmly as for
the  capitalization of
the company at that time the rumors
are crazy the range oscillates between
500 million and 1 billion dollars
for a purely internet product in
the craze is so crazy that
gartner a financial consulting company
particularly specialized in
technologies will  affirm that by 2011
80% of Internet users will have at least one
avatar on a virtual world as a second
life,
well after all everyone has the right to make a
mistake, only a short year
later the world comes back down
and returns to the  stop
Reuters decides to abandon his office
firstly because overall he is
bored with it and secondly because
technically second life is
still a bit of a mess
despite all these bugs second life is
tolerable as a game but the
professionals do not  will not use it and
should never use it to
do business second life will therefore have to
reorient towards the essentials convert
potential interested players and
residents who will spend money
to make nothing better and before the
economic crisis of 2008
second life residents will
experience roughly the same thing at
the time private banks were
set up by users
offering annual rates of return
between 25 and 40% but also in
dollars and euros how can you tell me
you by investing massively in
games of chance in second life
they are not regulated it reports ms
ashton honestly I go over what
could go wrong
jean cau was one of his banks it
will reach more than 200 million linden
dollars which is approximately  750 thousand
dollars very real and to make matters
worse it will be based on a
pyramid system the new entrants finance
the old ones but after a while
linden lab found itself stuck and
was forced to apply the regulations
of first life
yes  this very one and therefore ban
games of chance on their servers jean
cau whose all investments are
based on that literally therefore had
great difficulty in keeping its promises
it is the crisis the customers
literally rushed as in the real one
on  ATMs to withdraw their
money but the queues were
such that the bank had to prohibit
withdrawals. This is the moment of
bankruptcy
after this first scandal Linden Lab
will simply ban the
private banking system created by individuals
in  2008 to save the system Linden
Lab will call on lots of very
intelligent people from the real world to try
to regulate the currency and avoid
dropping the rate with lots of
very serious financial analysts who I
wouldn't be able to explain to you, the game will
then enter  in a sort of
hollow face the regulars remain but little by
little in
ypres slowly descends yet
competitors have not forgotten that the
concept had worked and this is how
google for example will try its hand
because obviously when we see the
cake  we want to take a part of it
and this is how Google Lively will be
created a timid, much less
ambitious copy which will ultimately last six
months before being closed in December
but the real competition arrives there we
don't  don't necessarily wait Facebook is at
the crossroads of a patron and a
second life
it stands out with a much
more accessible platform much simpler
much clearer and much more obvious to
stay in contact with loved ones
even if the user  very very different
second life the time allocated to the screens
will end up tending little by little towards the
platform of margut that urban which will
obviously not help secondary the
overpopulated and overmediatized world of
second life will therefore gradually be
deserted the public and the  media
radically change their discourse
the game is too complicated too vast and
too empty you can always
go to a Reebok store
but there are more sellers why
because there are more customers some
brands have even officially left
following the financial crisis  on second
life and the financial crisis is it
necessarily the impact of second life on
the brand image is very difficult to
quantify and after a while we
stop unnecessary spending
all this will result in linden lab has
laid off half of its  personal in
2010 at the same time philip rosedale
will give up his place from so high and will
completely leave the company he will return
to his first love
virtual reality to create a second life in
vr which is called high fidelity linden
lab will try to take the same path
with sansar another open-world vr but
which they will resell this very year in
2020 to refocus on second
life
and how not to talk for a few
seconds about fortnight without assuming it
without claiming it the game from epic games
has offered to several  covers
experiences similar to what
could be found in these virtual worlds
going far beyond the
basic concept of the game you couldn't miss the
incredible concert by Trevi Scott which
also helped boost the sales
of his album  by 80% the following week
well afterwards we agree it is difficult
to really compare second life art
night
yet even if most people
see second life as a human
and technological desert
a UFO which would have experienced the end of the world
a  hard core of residents continue to keep
all this alive it is difficult to be
in the news anymore the
global confinement has been felt in the figures
there has been a 60% increase in
new registrants recently
so certainly this old gas factory
too complex too empty will have got the better
of this game it was the competitors much
simpler to access like Facebook and
Twitter who won the battle
but Linden Lab was right about the
social link even virtual and
yet it is the simplicity of this  social link
who have forgotten it over time by
proposing a platform that is too ambitious and
too complex
but if we take a step back from
this whole story we can see it as a
pioneering project whose philosophy
is essentially based on the
utopian vision of Philip Rosedale  he will have been
visionary on a lot of points,
far from being a total enlightenment, philip
rosedale has achieved the feat of bringing
back a whole part of the planet,
the general public, journalists and even
jean lassalle to this delirious virtual world
created more than a year ago  15 years
sorry facebook
sorry twitter but you were not the
first and listening to the speech of
its creator
it is an honest and human project above
all which will have had the merit of having
partly guessed the future of the web before
the  advent of social networks
despite everything the philosophy of second
life was the right one
[Music] [
Music]
the team
[Music] [Music
] [Music
] [
Music]
[Applause]
[Music]
then
the